- Now that you've gotten a small taste
of what it's like to develop software,
you might be curious to learn more
about what you can do once you learn to code.
Most software developers know a few programming languages
which they use to write code for applications
that people and businesses use
to complete all sorts of tasks.
This is why I love software development.
There's this unlimited potential for what you can create.
Maybe you're really into cars.
Well, there's a ton of software packed into a car,
like the navigation system,
and now, even autopilot capabilities for self-driving cars.
In 2019, the CEO of Volkswagen estimated
that software will account for 90%
of the future innovations in cars.
That's just one industry,
but really, anything you're interested in,
whether it's cars, finance or fashion,
will become more intertwined with technology
as time goes on.
That's what's generating the strong demand
for software developers,
and it creates some amazing opportunities
for you to enter the field.
The applications that software developers build
come in all shapes and sizes.
As a developer, you might find yourself building software
for mobile applications, games, or desktop applications.
But most developers start off by building web applications.
So let's focus our discussions there.
At a high level, most web applications
break down into two layers,
the front-end and the back-end.
When we talk about the front-end of a web application,
it's the website and the pages users see and interact with.
So when you access a website,
all of the elements that make up the user interface
are part of the front-end.
Front-end developers primarily use three languages
to build the interface.
HTML is used to create the structure of the page
and its contents,
CSS is then used to style and position those contents,
and then JavaScript is used to make the page interactive.
When the front-end needs information to display,
or it has to perform a transaction,
like when you click on a button to order a product,
that's handled by the back-end code.
It runs on a server that receives messages
sent over a network from the front-end.
So, for example, on LinkedIn,
the front-end website might ask the backend
to trace all your network connections
so it can display them on the page.
The back-end receives the message,
performs the logic to query the database,
and then returns the information it clicks to the front-end.
Or maybe you order a product on Amazon.
The front-end sends the order to the back-end,
which then handles all the complicated logic
of the purchase, like updating the inventory,
billing your bank account, and arranging for shipping.
Some developers specialize in front-end
or back-end development,
while others, known as full stack developers,
work across both areas.
Full stack developers can write the code
that builds the user interface
and all of the logic that provides it
with data and transactional capabilities.
You don't have to decide right now,
but you should begin to think
about which of these areas interest you the most,
because it will influence your learning goals.
If you're very visual, you might lean towards the front-end,
or if you like solving complicated problems,
maybe the back-end is for you.
Once you've gained an understanding of one of these areas,
it opens you up to learning the other side
and going full stack.
It takes more time and effort,
but the great thing is,
you can start with where you're comfortable
and then expand your skillset as you gain more experience.
You'll have more opportunities as a full stack developer,
plus, it's an exciting and rewarding challenge.